Summary:
This paper introduces a new multimodal large language model agent for GUI control, called Agent S. Its main feature is the ability to complete various tasks in a GUI interface through direct keyboard and mouse control. Comparing with other agents, Agent S incorporates an experience-augmented hierarchical planning method, which enhances the agent's ability to decompose tasks based on trajectories stored in memory. Experiments demonstrate that this framework is versatile, capable of executing various GUI-oriented tasks across different systems(Ubuntu and Windows).

Soundness: 3: good
Presentation: 2: fair
Contribution: 2: fair
Strengths:
The advantages of this paper are that it has a clear line of thought, smooth transitions, and is easy to follow. The main architecture diagram of the agent is concise and clear, allowing for a straightforward understanding of the information flow. The selection of experimental environments is well-considered, taking into account both Ubuntu and Windows systems, which proves the effectiveness and generalization of the framework.

Weaknesses:
However, the experiments in this paper are not sufficiently comprehensive. First, the baselines used are not enough, and in the comparison results of the main experiments, MLLMs are used simply instead of MLLM agents. The experimental results based on single MLLMs that only input images and accessibility trees are not convincing enough. Existing agents such as Cradle and Claude 3 perform well using only keyboard and mouse inputs without requiring additional accessibility trees. As a result, the third contribution of this paper also limits the applicability of Agent S and raises doubts about whether all GUIs provide accessibility tree inputs and whether such inputs are necessary. Thus, the contributions of this paper may seem insufficiently innovative.

reference： [1]Tan W, Zhang W, Xu X, et al. Cradle: Empowering Foundation Agents towards General Computer Control[C]//NeurIPS 2024 Workshop on Open-World Agents.

Questions:
First, I have some doubts about the generalizability of accessibility trees. Do all GUIs have accessibility trees, and do systems like Ubuntu and Windows have similar forms of accessibility trees? I hope the article can clarify these points. Secondly, I would like the article to compare Agent S with different agents, evaluating whether Agent S demonstrates better experimental results compared to existing GUI agents. Lastly, the ablation study does not adequately cover all points of contribution. An experiment should clarify the performance of Agent S when solely relying on image input without ACI.

Flag For Ethics Review: No ethics review needed.
Rating: 5: marginally below the acceptance threshold
Confidence: 3: You are fairly confident in your assessment. It is possible that you did not understand some parts of the submission or that you are unfamiliar with some pieces of related work. Math/other details were not carefully checked.
Code Of Conduct: Yes