Summary:
The manuscript presents a model for handling complex distribution shifts in graph data. The proposed GraphMETRO model employs a mixture-of-experts (MoE) architecture, with a gating model to identify distributional shifts and multiple expert models to generate shift-invariant representations. This method aims to generalize graph neural networks (GNNs) to non-synthetic distribution shifts occurring naturally in real-world graph data, achieving state-of-the-art results on several datasets.

Soundness: 3: good
Presentation: 3: good
Contribution: 3: good
Strengths:
This paper studies an interesting research problem that is handling complex distribution shifts in graph data. This research problem has been very hot recently.
The model design is easy to understand. The paper provides a detailed explanation of the proposed model.
The experiment demonstrates the effectiveness of the model. The performance improvement on some comparisons seems to be significant.
Weaknesses:
Although the motivation is clear to me, the novelty is one of my concerns since explicitly considering instance heterogeneity for graph OOD problems is not new. I think the authors could address my concern by presenting more differences with related works clearly.
There are no detailed theoretical analyses to demonstrate why the model can well address the problem and perform better than the baselines.
The reviews of the related works are not enough. Please refer to the paper Out-Of-Distribution Generalization on Graphs: A Survey for a more comprehensive discussion of the related works on graph OOD problems. For example, the discussions on invariant learning in section 2 are too brief. The main claim “the standard invariant learning approaches are not well-equipped to mitigate the complex distribution shifts” is a little arbitrary considering the graph OOD literature.
Questions:
Could you provide detailed theoretical analyses to demonstrate why the model can excellently address the problem and perform better than the baselines?

Limitations:
Yes

Flag For Ethics Review: No ethics review needed.
Rating: 5: Borderline accept: Technically solid paper where reasons to accept outweigh reasons to reject, e.g., limited evaluation. Please use sparingly.
Confidence: 4: You are confident in your assessment, but not absolutely certain. It is unlikely, but not impossible, that you did not understand some parts of the submission or that you are unfamiliar with some pieces of related work.
Code Of Conduct: Yes