Summary:
This paper provides new lower and upper asymptotic bounds on the KL divergence between the true posterior and the posterior obtained from common classes of coreset construction algorithms, under milder assumptions than previously used.

My own research is in the area of Bayesian statistics but overall less theoretical. Yet, I could follow along thanks to the authors clear structure and writing. I did not have time to check all the proofs in detail but the authors gave me no reason to disbelieve their results.

Soundness: 4: excellent
Presentation: 4: excellent
Contribution: 3: good
Strengths:
The paper provides important new insights on the asymptotic performance we can can expect from Bayesian coreset approaches. It is very well written and provides good intuition about their theorems, thus facilitating understanding of the results even for readers you do not have the time or background to go through all the technicalities of the theorems. The two empirical examples are simple but provide good intuition through relating the empirical results with the theory.

Weaknesses:
I don’t see any major weaknesses. Of course, it would have been desirable to see the results illustrated on more complicated empirical examples, but I understand why the authors used the examples they did.

Questions:
Can the authors provide more intuition on why (close to Eq 4) “The lower threshold ensures that the variance of the importance-weighted log-likelihood is not too large, while the upper threshold ensures sufficient diversity in the draws from subsampling.”?

Limitations:
The provided limitations appear sensible to me.

Flag For Ethics Review: No ethics review needed.
Rating: 7: Accept: Technically solid paper, with high impact on at least one sub-area, or moderate-to-high impact on more than one areas, with good-to-excellent evaluation, resources, reproducibility, and no unaddressed ethical considerations.
Confidence: 3: You are fairly confident in your assessment. It is possible that you did not understand some parts of the submission or that you are unfamiliar with some pieces of related work. Math/other details were not carefully checked.
Code Of Conduct: Yes