Summary:
This work contributes to the approximation theory of Bayesian coresets. It establishes asymptotic lower bounds (in KL divergence) of Bayesian coreset approximation that do not require posterior normality assumptions. It also provides an upper bound of the approximation (in KL divergence) when the potentials satisfy the generalized subexponentiality condition. The theories are applied to some recent coreset construction algorithms in the literature to corroborate their observed empirical performances.

Soundness: 4: excellent
Presentation: 3: good
Contribution: 3: good
Strengths:
I must preface this review by saying that this paper is not in my expertise. However, as someone unfamiliar with Bayesian corset, I found it well-written, has a good flow, and I believe it presents very solid theoretical results.
The theoretical results are novel, presenting the first established lower bound for coreset approximation in the literature.
The upper bound of coreset approximation in this work relaxes the assumptions found in previous studies. I appreciate the author(s) providing examples of subexponential potentials in Propositions A.1 and A.2.
Weaknesses:
Since this manuscript studies both the lower and upper bounds of coreset approximation, a natural question that arises is how well do the lower and upper bounds match each other? Can the author(s) provide an example to see if there is a gap between these two bounds? That is, if we consider a specific set of subexponential potentials with a specific 
 and 
, can we show that its upper bound matches its lower bound when 
 is sufficiently large? Or, are the lower and upper bounds incomparable? If these bounds are optimal, they can guide researchers in designing corset construction algorithms and greatly benefit the community.
In the second lower bound in Theorem 3.3, is there a trade-off between 
 and 
 
 
 as 
 while 
 
 
? If 
 
 
 faster than 
, do we end up having a lower bound that's close to 
?
It seems like the role of the sequence 
 (i.e., how fast does 
) is very significant in establishing the lower bound. Specifically, in Corollary 4.1, 4.2, and 4.3, 
 is carefully chosen as shown in the proofs. I find it necessary to specify these choices of 
 in the statements of Corollary 4.1, 4.2, and 4.3.
Questions:
See weaknesses

Limitations:
Yes, the author(s) have addressed the limitations in the conclusion section.

Flag For Ethics Review: No ethics review needed.
Rating: 7: Accept: Technically solid paper, with high impact on at least one sub-area, or moderate-to-high impact on more than one areas, with good-to-excellent evaluation, resources, reproducibility, and no unaddressed ethical considerations.
Confidence: 3: You are fairly confident in your assessment. It is possible that you did not understand some parts of the submission or that you are unfamiliar with some pieces of related work. Math/other details were not carefully checked.
Code Of Conduct: Yes