Summary:
The authors present general upper and lower bounds on the Kullback-Leibler (KL) divergence of coreset approximations. The lower bounds require only mild model assumptions typical of Bayesian asymptotic analyses, while the upper bounds require the log-likelihood functions to satisfy a generalized subexponentiality criterion that is weaker than conditions used in earlier work. The lower bounds are applied to explain the the poor performance of importance sampling-based construction methods. The upper bounds are used to analyze the performance of recent subsample-optimize methods.

Soundness: 4: excellent
Presentation: 4: excellent
Contribution: 4: excellent
Strengths:
The paper is well-written, and the main technical results are clearly presented.
The paper addresses several gaps in the analysis of Bayesian coreset such as providing a theoretical explanation for the previously-observed poor empirical performance of importance sampling-based construction methods through a lower bound on KL divergence.
To the best of my knowledge, the theorems are sound and the derivations are accurate.
Weaknesses:
The paper offers a theoretical explanation for the suboptimal performance of importance-weighted coreset construction, and the conclusions of Corollary 4.1 and 4.2 are further validated by simulation results (Figure 2). However, [32] presents extensive experimental results on real-world datasets, which raises questions about the effectiveness of the lower bounds in scenarios where the model is misspecified or when working with real-world data (where models are often misspecified to some extent).

Questions:
Could you please provide some discussions about whether the theories can be extended to misspecified regime?
Providing formal definitions for some notations such as 
 and 
 would be helpful.
Limitations:
The paper clearly states its limitation.

Flag For Ethics Review: No ethics review needed.
Rating: 7: Accept: Technically solid paper, with high impact on at least one sub-area, or moderate-to-high impact on more than one areas, with good-to-excellent evaluation, resources, reproducibility, and no unaddressed ethical considerations.
Confidence: 2: You are willing to defend your assessment, but it is quite likely that you did not understand the central parts of the submission or that you are unfamiliar with some pieces of related work. Math/other details were not carefully checked.
Code Of Conduct: Yes