Summary:
In this paper, the authors propose a model named MG-Net to automatically generate QAOA ansatz. It is able to generate the mixer layer in QAOA and decide which gates to share parameters. By sharing parameters, the ansatz generated by the proposed model can potentially achieve better trainability as well as expressivity. Experimental results on Max-cut and TFIM for up to 64 qubits are provided showing the proposed method can improve the accuracy under the proposed setting.

Soundness: 3: good
Presentation: 3: good
Contribution: 2: fair
Strengths:
Well-structured paper with numerous experiments verifying the theoretical claims.

Weaknesses:
It is too simple to design the mixer Hamiltonian since it only involves choosing one of the three Pauli operators to fill in the blanks. I don't see evidence that the proposed model (especially the training step) can still work if it encounters a more complex candidate gate set.
The theoretical findings are not surprising to me since they mainly come from the quantum optimal control theory and overparameterization.
The experimental results are shaky. 1) The comparison against ma-QAOA actually shows that these two methods have extremely close performance, which makes sense since the proposed grouping method is similar to ma-QAOA; 2) Missing the number of parameters (especially the number of different parameters) for each method in all the experiments, which is crucial since the expressivity of the ansatz is closely related to the number of tunable parameters; 3) The fatal problem is that the authors seem not fully understand the QAOA. The RZZ gates provide two-qubit phase transitions, and the original mixer, which is made of Pauli-X gates, finds the minimum eigenvector. Therefore, the ansatz should not consist of any single-qubit Pauli-z gate to introduce an illegal phase to the final state. This can also be verified in Tab.4 in the appendix. A Pauli-Y gate can be decomposed by Pauli-Z and Pauli-X gates, and since it's illegal to have a single-qubit phase in the final state, involving Pauli-Y gates will not benefit the results. It is clear that there is no single-qubit phase in the Hamiltonian of either Max-Cut or TFIM; I'm confused about how the authors got the results. So with all the efforts in training and selecting from {X, Y, Z, I}, it is actually deciding X or Y, which have identical effects on the final state (Y might be even weaker). I suspect that randomly choosing from X and Y can produce identical results with precisely the same number of tunable parameters.
The whole paper is wrapped in an exquisite box with the essence of only choosing Pauli-X or Pauli-Y for the QAOA mixer.
Questions:
No questions.

Limitations:
Shaky experiments with naive essence disguised in the fancy presentation.

Flag For Ethics Review: No ethics review needed.
Rating: 2: Strong Reject: For instance, a paper with major technical flaws, and/or poor evaluation, limited impact, poor reproducibility and mostly unaddressed ethical considerations.
Confidence: 5: You are absolutely certain about your assessment. You are very familiar with the related work and checked the math/other details carefully.
Code Of Conduct: Yes